Required technical and professional expertise

Design develop and maintain robust and scalable web applications using TypeScript/React and Java/Spring Boot.
Build reusable components and front-end libraries for future use.
Implement server-side logic database schemas and APIs.
Collaborate with teammates and external teams to define design and ship new features.
Mentor junior developers and become a technical SME.
Familiarity with UX patterns/best practices and UI design in Figma
Front End – TypeScript React Material UI
Back End – Java Spring Boot Node JS
REST & GraphQL APIs
Mongo & Neo4J databases
Azure/Kubernetes and OpenShift deployment platforms

Preferred Technical And Professional Experience

Experience with containerization technologies (Docker, Kubernetes). 
Knowledge of serverless architectures and microservices. 
Familiarity with event-driven design patterns. 
Understanding of database systems (SQL, NoSQL). 
Experience with cloud security best practices






Requirement for frontend


Required Technical And Professional Expertise

 5-12 years of web app development experience
 Strong understanding and experience with Semantic HTML, modular CSS, JavaScript (ES6+), TypeScript
 Frontend Frameworks (React, Next.js etc.) and CSS Preprocessors (Sass/SCSS)
 State Management (Redux, MobX, or Context API)
 Experience handling data using XHR, JSON and REST APIs
 RESTful APIs & Fetch/Axios Integration
 Unit Testing (Jest, Mocha, Cypress)
 Web Performance Optimization (Lazy Loading, Code Splitting)
 Object-Oriented JavaScript & Asynchronous Programming
 Basic UX Principles & Accessibility (WCAG, ARIA)
 Strong ability to break down UI designs into extensible/modifiable/reusable/responsive component
 Experience with Cross-Browser development including testing and resolving compatibility issues
 Experience Unit Testing, debugging and resolving performance concerns
 Team Git workflow and version control (Git, GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket)

Preferred Technical And Professional Experience

 Desirable to have experience with Carbon design system,
 Basic knowledge of Full Stack development, Java, Python etc.
 Knowledge of software design patterns
 Agile software development methodologies, SOLID principals of OOP
 Knowledge of CI/CD, OpenShift, Kubernetes etc.
 Ability to adapt to and learn new technologies